Hello and welcome back to the course on tableau.
And I've got this feeling that by now you're probably getting a bit tired of all of these data prep
tutorials.
We've had a few in a row and yeah definitely it is a bit tedious sometimes but it's a very important
topic so I'm happy that we're carrying it off.
And also to spice things up I promise you that at the end of this tutorial we'll look at some visuals
and play around with the data just to have a bit of fun.
So today we're talking about the metadata grid.
What is the metadata grid that allows you to do is it allows you to look at all the columns separately
before all of this data getting in your way and get some information and maybe do some work just with
the column names and just the columns themselves.
And that is a very handy thing to have especially if you have like 30 20 30 40 50 columns.
It can be quite a challenge crawling around this place and finding the ones you need to do something
about.
Whereas if you use the metadata grid the right in front of you all of them.
So how do you get to the metadata grid.
Well like everything in tableau it's very simple.
You just have to click this one little button over here.
And once you're there.
This is I think it's called managed metadata.
Once you there you've got the grid in front of you.
We only have four columns so it isn't that big but at the same time you can really see some how we can
add some value to our dashboard through this metadata grid.
So here we've got the original name of the current name of the column.
Then we've got the table where it comes from and the remote field name.
So what was the original name of the column.
So in our case we've got regions which came from our spreadsheet and it was also called the regions
countries.
It came from a spreadsheet.
It's called countries pivot field names.
In our case it came from the pivot and the it actually represents the years.
So because we pivoted on the year you can see that pivot field names is a different years and pivot
field values is the total number of cars sold.
So how about we go ahead and make these adjustments here so instead of pivot field names we'll call
it a year and pivot field value we'll call it maybe not cars it's called vehicles sold.
And I'm not I specifically don't want to put the vehicle sales because that might imply dollars and
we don't want to confuse the users so we'll just call it vehicles sold maybe we'll put a space in between
them and countries we can put us like on capitalize it regions as well or just call it region.
And in this case country.
So that allowed us to clean up a bit our spreadsheet or our data.
Now you can see it's much better Region Country year vehicle sold and that is how you work with the
meta data grid.
Once again very small number of fields for us this K in this case.
But if you do ever have more fields you can come here and work or fit and it will be much more convenient
and much more handy for you.
So here you can also like look at other things like aliases for changing names four countries or the
different values in fields like do some splits which we've already talked about and so on.
So let's have a look at some data as promised because we want to see some colors.
All right.
So we're going to go to a sheet.
What are we going to look at.
Vehicles sold and we'll look at it by year.
Right away we've got an interesting picture so the total number of vehicles sold globally has been growing.
And it's currently sitting at 65 million vehicles sold in 2014.
What else could we add here.
Let's add region.
And now we've got a colorful chart so orange is Asia here and blue Europe.
So we can see that Asia Oceania Middle East 34 and a half million vehicles were sold in 2014.
What do we want to do now.
Well perhaps we want to see how much what percentage of the global sales was the were the sales in Asia.
So we can see here right away that it is quite a high portion based on the size of this bar but we don't
really really see what percentage exactly it was.
So how about we compare the percentages instead of the total values.
All right.
So we're creating a calculated fields at table calculation and here we will look 4 percent of total
but not across.
We want the percent of total down because we want the percent of total for every single year.
Click Apply and then we go we can see that.
What what percentage exactly each region is constituting for every single year maybe it will just take
this level of calculation hold down control added into label maybe format our label by now I hope all
of this is very straightforward.
What exactly we're doing because this must be very easy stuff for you guys right now so we'll just click
format this whole tab and make it bold.
And now if we format our label we just want to change it from one.
Put a percentage with no decimals.
There we go so that's that's where we can see maybe we you might want to change it to an area chart.
But then the label doesn't look as good.
So maybe keep it a bar chart.
And so here we can see that in 2014 53 percent of the world's vehicles personal vehicles were sold in
Asia Oceania and Middle East.
Nineteen percent were sold in Europe.
So Europe is in second place but far far behind Asia ocean and Middle East.
But fair enough because that is a very big region and laughter.
So the North American Free Trade Agreement that's America US United States Canada and Mexico 14 percent
of the total vehicle sales.
Once again those are personal vehicles.
So there we go we had to play around with the data just to make a little bit more fun.
Feel free to explore further.
This is quite interesting dataset.
Maybe look at your countries see how the sales in your country have been changing.
This is freely available data on the net.
So it should be should be quite accurate.
Next what we're going to do in the next tutorial we will look at the errors that you can that can happen
when you're working with maps or data errors when working with maps and we'll see how to fix them.
And that'll be a very interesting more very useful tutorial if you are planning on working with maps
going forward.
OK.
So that's it for today.
Thank you very much for attention.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.